June 13 (Reuters) - Jenna Ellis, who was among the most high-profile attorneys involved in the Trump campaign’s efforts to overturn the 2020 election results, has joined Pennsylvania Republican Doug Mastriano’s gubernatorial campaign as a senior legal adviser, the campaign said Monday. Ellis, along with Rudy Giuliani and Sidney Powell, was part of the Trump campaign legal team that promoted false allegations of voter fraud after former President Donald Trump refused to concede the 2020 election. Mastriano in a statement said Ellis’ legal expertise “will be an important factor” in the election fight against Democratic nominee and Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro. Ellis, in a statement provided by the campaign, said Mastriano will “restore integrity to our elections.” “I’m honored to do whatever I can to help him make that happen,” Ellis said. The Mastriano campaign did not answer questions about Ellis's role, and Ellis declined further comment. Ellis is the subject of bar complaints from The 65 Project, an advocacy group seeking to hold accountable attorneys involved in the post-election litigation, as well as the nonprofit States United Democracy Center. Mastriano, a Pennsylvania state senator who was endorsed by Trump in the gubernatorial primary, was outside the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, when a mob of Trump supporters stormed the building. He was a prominent supporter of the former president's election fraud claims, and pushed for a “forensic audit” of ballots in his state before being stripped of his role overseeing the probe. If elected governor in November, Mastriano will be able to appoint Pennsylvania's secretary of state, the state official who oversees election administration. Ellis' hire was announced the same day a U.S. congressional committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack heard public testimony focused on false election fraud claims made by Giuliani and others. Monday's hearing featured figures such as former Attorney General William Barr and other top Trump advisers rejecting the fraud allegations. Ellis was subpoenaed by the committee but it is not clear whether she will appear in future hearings. Read more: Trump advisers say they told him election fraud claims were illegitimate Two Trump-backed candidates win U.S. midterm election primaries Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Jacqueline Thomsen, based in Washington, D.C., covers legal news related to policy, the courts and the legal profession. Follow her on Twitter at @jacq_thomsen and email her at jacqueline.thomsen@thomsonreuters.com.