(Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Wednesday said a unique California law allowing workers to sue their employers in the state's name does not permit them to circumvent agreements to bring legal disputes in individual arbitration rather than court. The court's 8-1 ruling in a case involving Viking River Cruises Inc is a major victory for business groups who had backed the company, and is likely to stem a flood of lawsuits filed in recent years accusing companies of widespread wage law violations. Justice Samuel Alito wrote for the court that the Federal Arbitration Act, which requires the enforcement of agreements many workers sign to arbitrate legal claims, trumps a rule created by California courts requiring claims brought under the state's Private Attorneys General Act to remain in court. Viking River and its lawyers did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Scott Nelson of Public Citizen, who represents plaintiff Angie Moriana, in an email said the ruling was disappointing but that it left open important questions about when workers have standing to sue under PAGA. "California may be able to protect its ability to ensure that those claims can be litigated by clarifying its standing law," Nelson said. PAGA allows workers to sue businesses for violating various state employment laws and keep one-quarter of the damages if they prevail, with the rest going to the state. The number of PAGA lawsuits filed in California on behalf of groups of workers has skyrocketed since 2014, when the California Supreme Court held that because PAGA plaintiffs step into the state's shoes, their claims cannot be forced into individual arbitration. More than half of private-sector workers have signed agreements to bring legal disputes in individual arbitration and refrain from joining class actions, and the Supreme Court in recent years has rejected various attempts by plaintiffs to circumvent them. PAGA had served as a key avenue to keep class action claims in court in California, which is especially crucial when individual claims would be too small for workers to pursue. But the Supreme Court on Wednesday said PAGA plaintiffs can only establish standing to sue by first alleging an individual claim; Moriana, for example, accused Viking River of failing to pay her final wages in a timely manner after she quit her job. And since the FAA requires those individual claims to be arbitrated when workers have signed arbitration agreements, plaintiffs like Moriana cannot tack on claims involving larger groups of workers, Alito wrote. Jonathan Urick, associate chief counsel for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Litigation Center, said in a statement that arbitration is a faster and cheaper route for workers to resolve legal disputes. "Trial lawyers can no longer use California PAGA claims to force workers, consumers and businesses into expensive and time-consuming lawsuits," Urick said. The Litigation Center is the legal arm of the country's largest business lobbying group. Viking River had appealed a decision by a California appeals court that said Moriana's lawsuit could not be forced into arbitration. Justice Clarence Thomas in a brief dissent said he believed the FAA does not apply to cases brought in state courts. The case is Viking River Cruises Inc v. Moriana, U.S. Supreme Court, No. 20-1573. For Viking River: Paul Clement of Kirkland & Ellis For Moriana: Scott Nelson of Public Citizen (NOTE: This article has been updated to include comments from Scott Nelson and Jonathan Urick.) Read more: Viking River Cruises urges Supreme Court to curb Calif. worker lawsuits High court will review arbitration exemption under novel Calif. law Calif. AG tells SCOTUS arbitration exemption key to enforcing labor laws California's Private AG Act is a scourge, employers tell SCOTUS SCOTUS suddenly very interested in California's Private Attorneys General Act Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Dan Wiessner (@danwiessner) reports on labor and employment and immigration law, including litigation and policy making. He can be reached at daniel.wiessner@thomsonreuters.com.