June 6 (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) on Monday launched a software update to its iPhones, unveiled a buy now pay later service and introduced a MacBook Air powered with its latest M2 chip.  read more  At the Worldwide Developers Conference, Apple's second major annual event, the tech giant showed off a new car dashboard that will come in new models including those of Ford and Jaguar, and the iPhone maker rolled out a slew of features for collaboration and data safety. Here are the major launches made at the event: The latest operating system for iPhones will have a refreshed lockscreen that comes with new widgets, greater personalization and a new approach towards notifications. Apple Pay Later will allow users to pay using Apple Pay where it is accepted and pay for it in four installments over six weeks, without any additional fee. The new iOS will have feature fresh updates for CarPlay including new gauge clusters and automakers including Ford Motor Co (F.N) and Jaguar Land Rover will integrate the feature with their cars. Apple revealed the M2 chip, the successor to the company's first in-house chip, named M1. The latest M2 chip, which comes with 24 gigabytes of unified memory, is 18% better than its predecessor and can playback multiple streams of 4K and 8K video. Apple also launched a redesigned MacBook air and a MacBook Pro with the new chip. The powerful M2 chip will be loaded on a brand new MacBook Air, redesigned around the M2 chip. Weighing just 2.7 pounds, new Air is 11.3 inches thick, fitted with a 13.6 inch liquid Retina display and will have a Magsafe charging system. There is also headphone jack. The MacBook Air will start at $1,199 and come in gray, gold, silver and blue. MacBook Pro starts at $1,299. Both laptops will be available next month. IPadOS 16 will include the Free Form productivity app, which will allow users to share ideas on FaceTime video meetings. The iPad Pro will now be able to show groups of apps on a secondary screen, allowing for greater productivity in a bid to make iPad apps more "desktop-like". Apple's new WatchOS 9 will bring new watch faces, new metrics for workouts and heart rate zones for exercise. It also expects to receive the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's clearance for the atrial fibrillation health feature soon. The software update will also help users build a medication list and remind them to take medicines. Apple also beefed up security features on the new iOS. It launched Safety Check in the settings app that lets users revoke access to personal data like location they had shared with other users. Users can also logout from iCloud accounts on other devices for added safety from the Safety Check page. The new MacOS, dubbed Ventura, will have updates to the Mail app, camera software updates and improved productivity features. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.