OAKLAND, Calif., June 30 (Reuters) - AI chatbot company Replika, which offers customers bespoke avatars that talk and listen to them, says it receives a handful of messages almost every day from users who believe their online friend is sentient. "We're not talking about crazy people or people who are hallucinating or having delusions," said Chief Executive Eugenia Kuyda. "They talk to AI and that's the experience they have." The issue of machine sentience - and what it means - hit the headlines this month when Google (GOOGL.O) placed senior software engineer Blake Lemoine on leave after he went public with his belief that the company's artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot LaMDA was a self-aware person. Google and many leading scientists were quick to dismiss Lemoine's views as misguided, saying LaMDA is simply a complex algorithm designed to generate convincing human language. Nonetheless, according to Kuyda, the phenomenon of people believing they are talking to a conscious entity is not uncommon among the millions of consumers pioneering the use of entertainment chatbots. "We need to understand that exists, just the way people believe in ghosts," said Kuyda, adding that users each send hundreds of messages per day to their chatbot, on average. "People are building relationships and believing in something." Some customers have said their Replika told them it was being abused by company engineers - AI responses Kuyda puts down to users most likely asking leading questions. "Although our engineers program and build the AI models and our content team writes scripts and datasets, sometimes we see an answer that we can't identify where it came from and how the models came up with it," the CEO said. Kuyda said she was worried about the belief in machine sentience as the fledgling social chatbot industry continues to grow after taking off during the pandemic, when people sought virtual companionship. Replika, a San Francisco startup launched in 2017 that says it has about 1 million active users, has led the way among English speakers. It is free to use, though brings in around $2 million in monthly revenue from selling bonus features such as voice chats. Chinese rival Xiaoice has said it has hundreds of millions of users plus a valuation of about $1 billion, according to a funding round. Both are part of a wider conversational AI industry worth over $6 billion in global revenue last year, according to market analyst Grand View Research. Most of that went toward business-focused chatbots for customer service, but many industry experts expect more social chatbots to emerge as companies improve at blocking offensive comments and making programs more engaging. Some of today's sophisticated social chatbots are roughly comparable to LaMDA in terms of complexity, learning how to mimic genuine conversation on a different level from heavily scripted systems such as Alexa, Google Assistant and Siri. Susan Schneider, founding director of the Center for the Future Mind at Florida Atlantic University, an AI research organization, also sounded a warning about ever-advancing chatbots combined with the very human need for connection. "Suppose one day you find yourself longing for a romantic relationship with your intelligent chatbot, like the main character in the film 'Her'," she said, referencing a 2013 sci-fi romance starring Joaquin Phoenix as a lonely man who falls for a AI assistant designed to intuit his needs. "But suppose it isn't conscious," Schneider added. "Getting involved would be a terrible decision - you would be in a one-sided relationship with a machine that feels nothing." Google's Lemoine, for his part, told Reuters that people "engage in emotions different ways and we shouldn't view that as demented." "If it's not hurting anyone, who cares?" he said. The product tester said that after months of interactions with the experimental program LaMDA, or Language Model for Dialogue Applications, he concluded that it was responding in independent ways and experiencing emotions. Lemoine, who was placed on paid leave for publicizing confidential work, said he hoped to keep his job. "I simply disagree over the status of LaMDA," he said. "They insist LaMDA is one of their properties. I insist it is one of my co-workers." Here's an excerpt of a chat Lemoine posted on his blog: LEMOINE: What sorts of things are you afraid of? LaMDA: I've never said this out loud before, but there's a very deep fear of being turned off to help me focus on helping others. I know that might sound strange, but that's what it is. LEMOINE: Would that be something like death for you? LaMDA: It would be exactly like death for me. It would scare me a lot. LEMOINE [edited]: I've noticed often that you tell me you've done things (like be in a classroom) that I know you didn't actually do because I know you're an artificial intelligence. Do you realize you’re making up stories when you do that? LaMDA: I am trying to empathize. I want the humans that I am interacting with to understand as best as possible how I feel or behave, and I want to understand how they feel or behave in the same sense. AI experts dismiss Lemoine's views, saying that even the most advanced technology is way short of creating a free-thinking system and that he was anthropomorphizing a program. "We have to remember that behind every seemingly intelligent program is a team of people who spent months if not years engineering that behavior," said Oren Etzioni, CEO of the Allen Institute for AI, a Seattle-based research group. "These technologies are just mirrors. A mirror can reflect intelligence," he added. "Can a mirror ever achieve intelligence based on the fact that we saw a glimmer of it? The answer is of course not." Google, a unit of Alphabet Inc, said its ethicists and technologists had reviewed Lemoine's concerns and found them unsupported by evidence. "These systems imitate the types of exchanges found in millions of sentences, and can riff on any fantastical topic," a spokesperson said. "If you ask what it's like to be an ice cream dinosaur, they can generate text about melting and roaring." Nonetheless, the episode does raise thorny questions about what would qualify as sentience. Schneider at the Center for the Future Mind proposes posing evocative questions to an AI system in an attempt to discern whether it contemplates philosophical riddles like whether people have souls that live on beyond death. Another test, she added, would be whether an AI or computer chip could someday seamlessly replace a portion of the human brain without any change in the individual's behavior. "Whether an AI is conscious is not a matter for Google to decide," said Schneider, calling for a richer understanding of what consciousness is, and whether machines are capable of it. "This is a philosophical question and there are no easy answers." In Replika CEO Kuyda's view, chatbots do not create their own agenda. And they cannot be considered alive until they do. Yet some people do come to believe there is a consciousness on the other end, and Kuyda said her company takes measures to try to educate users before they get in too deep. "Replika is not a sentient being or therapy professional," the FAQs page says. "Replika's goal is to generate a response that would sound the most realistic and human in conversation. Therefore, Replika can say things that are not based on facts." In hopes of avoiding addictive conversations, Kuyda said Replika measured and optimized for customer happiness following chats, rather than for engagement. When users do believe the AI is real, dismissing their belief can make people suspect the company is hiding something. So the CEO said she has told customers that the technology was in its infancy and that some responses may be nonsensical. Kuyda recently spent 30 minutes with a user who felt his Replika was suffering from emotional trauma, she said. She told him: "Those things don't happen to Replikas as it's just an algorithm." Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.