MADRID, June 30 (Reuters) - President Joe Biden on Thursday said he thinks the U.S. Senate should override the legislative filibuster to protect abortion and other privacy rights. Biden also said he will meet with state governors about the Supreme Court's abortion ruling on Friday. "We have to codify Roe v. Wade into law," Biden said at a news conference on the sidelines of a NATO conference in Madrid. "If the filibuster gets in the way, it's like voting rights, it should be provided the exception for this - require an exception to the filibuster for this action." The moves come as Biden and his Democratic Party have come under pressure to take bold new steps to counter the Supreme Court's ruling on Friday overturning Roe v. Wade, which had guaranteed the constitutional right of women to obtain abortions. The hot-button issue is seen as a potent political force ahead of the Nov. 8 midterm elections, where Democrats are seeking to retain control of the House of Representatives and Senate. Protecting abortion rights is a top issue for Democratic women, Reuters polling shows. In recent days, both White House aides and congressional leaders have said they lacked the 60 votes needed to pass most legislation, including a broad abortion rights bill, and overcome a filibuster in the Senate. Democrats could eliminate the filibuster with a simple 51-vote majority, but so far the idea has run into opposition from key senators, including Democrats Kyrsten Sinema and Joe Manchin, both of whom have rejected the idea. Prior changes to the filibuster rule have backfired on Democrats. Democrats in 2013 removed the rule for most nominees for administration jobs, and Republicans in turn removed it for Supreme Court nominees in 2017. That decision allowed Republicans to confirm three Donald Trump appointees to the high court in his four years in office, cementing the current 6-3 conservative majority which overturned Roe v. Wade. Biden had previously endorsed bypassing the filibuster in only limited cases, such as voting rights and avoiding a debt default, but not for abortion rights. The White House plans a range of executive actions in the coming days, and has also promised to protect women who cross state lines for abortions and support for medical abortion. Democrats have pressed for more steps, including limiting the Supreme Court's jurisdiction or expanding its membership, ending the filibuster rule, and building abortion clinics on federal lands. But Biden and administration officials have been concerned that more radical moves would be politically polarizing, undermine public trust in institutions like the Supreme Court or lack strong legal footing, sources inside and outside the White House said.  read more  Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.