March 8 (Reuters) - Russia's offensive in Ukraine continued but at a significantly slower pace on Tuesday, Ukraine's armed forces said. HUMANITARIAN CORRIDORS * Russia has opened "humanitarian corridors" so people can be evacuated from Kyiv, Cherhihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv and Mariupol, the Interfax news agency quoted the Russian defence ministry as saying on Tuesday. The defence ministry added that Russian forces in Ukraine had introduced a "silent regime" from 0700 GMT, Interfax reported. FLEEING CONFLICT * Around 1.2 million Ukrainians have fled to Poland since the invasion on Feb. 24, including 141,500 on Monday, the Polish Border Guard said on Tuesday. A total of 291,081 Ukrainians have fled to Romania since the invasion on began, including 29,636 on Monday, border police data showed on Tuesday. As many as 5 million Ukrainians could flee the country if the invasion continues, the EU's top diplomat said, while the United Nations' refugee agency said more than 1.7 million have left so far. RUSSIAN GENERAL KILLED * Russia's offensive continued but at a significantly slower pace on Tuesday and a second senior Russian commander had been killed, Ukrainian military and intelligence said, as frightened residents fled bombed-out cities.  read more  TALKS * After the third attempt to ease the bloodshed at talks in Belarus failed, negotiators warned not to expect the next round to bring a final result. The Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers are expected to meet in Turkey on Thursday. UKRAINE PRESIDENT * Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy will address British lawmakers via video link in the House of Commons on Tuesday, the first time a president of another country has addressed the main Westminster chamber. DEATH TOLL * Ukraine says its forces have killed more than 11,000 Russian troops. Russia has confirmed about 500 losses. Neither side has disclosed Ukrainian casualties.  read more  OIL CRISIS * Russia warned that oil prices could surge to $300 a barrel and it might close the main gas pipeline to Germany if the West halts oil imports over the invasion.  read more  On Tuesday, Russian natural gas company Gazprom continued gas shipments via Ukraine at the same volume of 109.5 million cubic metres a day, the RIA Novosti news agency reported.  INTERNATIONAL REPERCUSSIONS * Germany will host a virtual meeting of agricultural ministers from G7 countries on Friday to discuss the impact of the invasion on global food security and how to best stabilise food markets, the government said.  read more  IN RUSSIA * Police detained 5,020 people at Russia-wide protests against the invasion of Ukraine, according to an independent monitoring group. INSIGHT * For foreign fighters, Ukraine offers purpose, camraderie and a cause.  read more  QUOTES "In Ukraine rivers of blood and tears are flowing. This is not only a military operation but a war which is leading to death, destruction and misery," said Pope Francis, rejecting Moscow's description of its actions as a "special operation".  read more  Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.