NEW YORK, March 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Goldman Sachs (GS.N) was the first major foreign investment bank to go into Russia when the iron curtain disintegrated. Now it’s the first since President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine to head the other way. David Solomon’s firm is halting operations in the country, it said on Thursday. Goldman is learning the Russian for "reputational risk." The history of Goldman in Russia is long, but hasn’t always been edifying. It pitched up in 1992 to help Boris Yeltsin’s government make the country appealing to international investors, only to pull out as the economy faltered. It came back shortly before Russia’s 1998 debt crisis, and then again a couple of years ahead of 2008’s global financial meltdown. Nonetheless, Goldman has made money along the way. Its $114 million of Russian investment banking fees over the past five years, based on Refinitiv data, beat any other foreign bank. The decision to quit the country has moral overtones read more  in light of Putin's aggression, but it also reflects reality on the ground. Widespread sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe make doing business in Russia difficult if not impossible. Many staff had already asked to go elsewhere – often ending up in Dubai – which had cut the bank’s 100-or-so headcount in half, according to a person familiar with the situation. For a people business that paid its staff an average $400,000 each last year, idle hands are a shareholder’s nightmare. It’s easier for Goldman to pull the plug than for a commercial lender like Citigroup (C.N) or JPMorgan (JPM.N) with more loaned dollars at risk. Peers may follow  read more  as Russia's assault on Ukraine continues. But it’s arguably more urgent for Goldman to act, because the firm wins not with its balance sheet but with its reputation. Thirty years ago, then-partner Robert Rubin said the Goldman name would give investors comfort and optimism. The best way to defend the brand now is to leave – and refrain from giving that kind of succor to the Kremlin. Follow @johnsfoley on Twitter CONTEXT NEWS - Goldman Sachs is winding down its operations in Russia, making it the first Wall Street firm to exit the country since President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine. - Goldman said on March 10 that it would run down the business “in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements,” leaving staff to handle essential regulated activities. - The Wall Street firm was one of the first to enter Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union, and it was hired by the government of President Boris Yeltsin in 1992 to help attract foreign investors. - Goldman had roughly 100 employees in Russia before the Ukraine invasion, according to people familiar with the situation. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.