NEW YORK, March 17 (Reuters Breakingviews) - U.S. electric-vehicle leader Tesla (TSLA.O) has hiked its prices  read more  twice in a matter of days, with BYD (002594.SZ), (1211.HK) following suit  read more . The Chinese company and Tesla boss Elon Musk have pointed to rising raw materials costs. It's a trend that threatens the dream of an affordable EV for the masses. Keeping that hope alive argues  for cheaper, lighter cars using battery technology that throws out now-expensive materials like nickel and cobalt as far as possible, perhaps even at the cost of range. Some impact is unavoidable: Batteries need lithium and car bodies need aluminum. But things are changing. BYD is slimming down batteries while Tesla is integrating them into cars’ chassis. Meanwhile, the average amount of nickel and cobalt used in new cars declined somewhat in the second half of 2021 – down 2% and 9% per car, respectively – according to research from Adamas Intelligence. EV sales have benefited from restrained commodity costs in recent years, as well as from improving technology. With the cost side now going haywire, automakers may have to step on the accelerator when it comes to the pace of innovation and adaptation. (By Jonathan Guilford) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Online grocer woes imply fresh price wars  read more  China Swiss IPOs as predictable as a cuckoo clock  read more  Delayed Arnault exit is net win for LVMH investors  read more  Telecom Italia picks wrong time to do right thing  read more  China stock tumble is a reminder of deepening rift  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.