MILAN, March 14 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Telecom Italia (TLIT.MI) directors have wasted time at shareholders’ expense. The Italian telecom operator’s board on Sunday opened the door  read more  to KKR’s (KKR.N) potential 10.8 billion euro takeover, four months after the buyout fund signalled its willingness  read more  to make a bid. While the board was making up its mind, Telecom Italia reported a record net loss  of 8.7 billion euros, prompting a credit downgrade and sending its shares to an all-time low. The war in Ukraine isn’t making things any easier for the indebted company. Italian consumers grappling with expensive energy bills may look for cheaper phone and data services. Much of the resistance to KKR came from Vincent Bolloré’s Vivendi (VIV.PA), Telecom Italia’s largest shareholder. The French media company, which on March 9 wrote down its 24% stake by 728 million euros, has said KKR undervalued the company. With the shares trading at just 30.3 euro cents on Monday morning, KKR’s original proposal of 50.5 cents a share looks extremely generous. (By Lisa Jucca) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: China stock tumble is a reminder of deepening rift  read more  Americans’ inflation tolerance may be fleeting  read more  Dutch dredger makes virtue of living the low life  read more  Abramovich sanctions put Chelsea in financial hole  read more  Disney investors make ESG activist must-watch TV  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.