(Reuters) - At least seven large law firms, including Davis Polk & Wardwell, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher and Baker McKenzie pitched in on Nielsen Holdings' $16 billion buyout by a private equity consortium. The New York-based company, which gathers TV, radio and digital viewership data for advertisers, agreed to a buyout Tuesday. The deal will take the company private. Nielsen said it tapped Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Clifford Chance, DLA Piper and Baker McKenzie as its legal counsel on the deal. Nielsen's team at Baker McKenzie was led by New York-based corporate partner Alan Zoccolilo and Washington, D.C.,-based antitrust partner Creighton Macy, according to the law firm. Wachtell said its team was led by New York-based corporate partners Steven Rosenblum and Raaj Narayan. The other two firms staffing the deal for Nielsen didn't immediately respond to requests for attorney names on Tuesday. Two private equity firms led the consortium purchasing Nielsen – Evergreen Coast Capital Corp and Brookfield Business Partners. Evergreen and the consortium were represented by Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, and Herbert Smith Freehills. Brookfield was advised by Davis Polk & Wardwell. The team at Gibson Dunn was helmed by New York-based private equity partner Richard Birns and New York-based corporate partner Kristen Poole, according to the law firm. Herbert Smith Freehills said London-based corporate partner Mark Bardell and London-based M&A partner Gavin Davies led its team. Davis Polk's team was led by New York-based M&A partner Leonard Kreynin and London-based corporate partner Will Pearce, the firm said. The $10 billion cash deal to purchase Nielsen, valued at $16 billion with debt included, is expected to close at the end of the year. (NOTE: This story has been updated to include the names of Wachtell and Herbert Smith Freehills' lead lawyers.) Read more: Nielsen agrees to $10-billion buyout offer from Brookfield-led group Nielsen rejects takeover approach from consortium that valued at $9.1 bln Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Chinekwu Osakwe covers legal industry news with a focus on midsize law firms. Reach her at Chinekwu.osakwe@thomsonreuters.com.