LONDON, March 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - London soccer club Chelsea’s finances were already shaky. After the UK government sanctioned owner Roman Abramovich on Thursday, the reigning European club champions face a whole new world of uncertainty. The move freezes a sale process that the Russian oligarch launched last week  read more . Chelsea can still play matches and pay staff and suppliers under a special government licence that is supposed to keep things ticking over until May 31. But meeting its obligations might be tough. Chelsea’s parent company burned through 20 million pounds in its last financial year. Abramovich provided a backstop with a roughly equal amount of extra funding. As of June 2021, he had loaned the club a net 1.5 billion pounds since buying it in 2003. The club’s accountants only treat it as a going concern because Abramovich offers a financial shield. Without him, it will probably have to slash spending. Player wages make up the biggest part of its cost base. Stars like Romelu Lukaku and Timo Werner should brace for some pain. (By Liam Proud) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Disney investors make ESG activist must-watch TV  read more  Fortescue’s new green CFO faces tough transition  read more  Russia forces White House hand on digital dollar  read more  DWS’ Stagecoach offer looks hard to derail  read more  Danone’s reset looks manageable but modest  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.