HONG KONG, March 17 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Three mainland-listed firms, including $23 billion construction equipment maker Sany Heavy Industry (600031.SS), said they plan to sell  read more  shares in Zurich. The move fits with Beijing’s push to encourage more businesses from the People’s Republic to tap investors in Europe. The announcements come four years after the launch of the so-called London-Shanghai Connect, a fundraising channel which was extended to Frankfurt and Zurich in December. Broker Huatai Securities (601688.SS) pioneered the London leg in 2019, raising $1.7 billion, but only three companies have followed. Swiss money will come in handy but executives should not expect much investor interest: Two years on and triple-listed Huatai sees less than 1% of its daily trading in London. Still, the headlines might briefly distract from the travails of Chinese firms in New York, where U.S. watchdogs have started naming companies that could be forcibly ejected  read more  unless Beijing allows local U.S. inspections of audits. And that might be most of the point. (By Jennifer Hughes) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Delayed Arnault exit is net win for LVMH investors  read more  Telecom Italia picks wrong time to do right thing  read more  China stock tumble is a reminder of deepening rift  read more  Americans’ inflation tolerance may be fleeting  read more  Dutch dredger makes virtue of living the low life  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.