LONDON, March 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - KKR (KKR.N) looks to have dodged a Telecom Italia (TLIT.MI) bullet. The hapless operator’s shares fell 13% on Thursday after new Chief Executive Pietro Labriola spurned a tentative 10.8 billion euro offer from the buyout group  read more . His alternative self-help plan is a carbon copy of KKR’s breakup proposals, confirming their logic and investors’ doubts about his execution abilities. But with Telecom Italia’s equity now worth around 6.5 billion euros – less than when KKR first floated its 47.5% premium  read more  – there’s every chance it would have been overpaying. KKR’s interest was always contingent on getting a closer look at the former monopoly’s books. That was prudent given the dire nature of their contents. Besides a record 8.3 billion euro loss, the result mainly of goodwill and tax write-downs, Telecom Italia’s EBITDA after leases plunged to 4.3 billion euros in 2021 from 5.9 billion euros the previous year. With hindsight, KKR would have been foolish to dangle such a juicy carrot in front of shareholders’ noses. (By Ed Cropley) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Farallon and Co put price on coal’s pariah status  read more  Ford plays private equity on its own business  read more  French tester pain helps odds of Europe mega-deal  read more  Digital waves crash hard on Sea  read more  Shell’s deal Down Under blows more ill wind at AGL  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.