LONDON, March 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Sports bankers often say that acquiring a soccer club means buying it twice: once through the asking price and again in the form of continued funding. Chelsea Football Club, whose owner Roman Abramovich has put the club up for sale, is a case in point. Add in the risk of dealing with a Russian oligarch, and it seems likely that the process will attract only lowball bids. The metals magnate said on Wednesday he would sell the west London club that he bought for 140 million pounds in 2003. He also said doing so was in the best interest of the team and its employees, hours after UK opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer pushed Prime Minster Boris Johnson to sanction him personally. The Russian pledged to donate “net proceeds” to victims of the war in Ukraine, without specifying what he meant by the term or who exactly would receive the funds. One potential sticking point is 1.5 billion pounds of borrowings that Chelsea’s parent company, Fordstam, owes to Abramovich. The statement said he “will not be asking for any loans to be repaid”, which is not necessarily the same as definitely writing off the debt. Possible workarounds include converting it into debt-like preferred equity. In any case, a mooted price tag of 3 billion pounds, according to Sky News, seems a stretch. That would value Chelsea at 7 times revenue from the last financial year. Stock-market investors value Manchester United (MANU.N) at 4 times the sales it generated in the 12 months to June 2021. All of which points to a potential enterprise value with a relatively small equity component. Meanwhile, Chelsea is in a worse financial position than most. Fordstam posted a loss of almost 170 million pounds last year. Its accountants at KPMG only audited it on a going concern basis because of Abramovich’s commitment to backstop ongoing losses. The club also needs a new stadium. The Athletic has reported that previous plans to build one could have cost about 1 billion pounds. It’s hardly a great time to do business with a Russian oligarch, either. Buyers may worry about whether they could complete the transaction if Britain hits Abramovich with sanctions. It follows that Chelsea’s sale “net proceeds” may not amount to much. Follow @liamwardproud on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist.  The opinions expressed are his own.) CONTEXT NEWS - Russian businessman Roman Abramovich said on March 2 that he would sell Chelsea Football Club and donate the net proceeds to help victims of the war in Ukraine. - Abramovich in a statement that a sale was in the best interests of the reigning European and world soccer champions and that he would not ask for any loans to be repaid. - Chelsea’s auditors KPMG said in its most recent annual report that the club is dependent on its parent company, Fordstam, for continued financial support. Fordstam, controlled by Abramovich, had 1.5 billion pounds of related party loans outstanding on June 30, 2021. - British opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer asked Prime Minister Boris Johnson on March 2 why there had not been sanctions against the Chelsea owner. Johnson, speaking in parliament, said he could not go into details on specific cases. - Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned that she has drawn up a “hit list” of Russian oligarchs, and said the government would impose new sanctions on them every few weeks. BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.