LONDON, March 4 (Reuters Breakingviews) - A slumping euro will aggravate European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde’s already difficult policy predicament. The euro zone economy is more exposed than other regions to the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the knock-on effects of sanctions, which is why the single currency is falling. Its broad-based slide will make imports more expensive and exacerbate high inflation. The euro on Friday fell below $1.10 for the first time in nearly two years and was on track for its biggest daily percentage decline since March 2020, a time of massive demand for dollar funding as Covid-19 hit the West. Something similar is happening again, making the greenback generally strong. A gauge of funding stress in global financial markets, the gap between the U.S three-month forward interest rate and the three-month overnight index swap rate, just hit its highest since May 2020. But this time, Europe’s single currency is also displaying independent weakness: It slid to a seven-year low against the Swiss franc and to its weakest since 2016 against the British pound. There are good reasons. Europe had close commercial ties with Russia so war and sanctions will inflict damage on euro zone exporters and its companies’ supply chains. In 2021, Russia was the fifth-largest partner for EU exports of goods and the third largest for EU imports of goods, according to the European Commission. Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, was both the largest importer of goods from the country and the largest exporter of goods there. The single currency bloc also depended more heavily on Russian energy than other regions. And geographical proximity is a decided negative for sentiment in the aftermath of a Russian assault on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest  read more . For Lagarde, the reasons for the euro’s slide matter less than the consequences. A falling currency makes imports pricier at a time when inflation has just hit a record high of 5.8%, nearly three times the ECB’s target. The problem is all the greater because the price of oil, denominated in dollars, is already soaring. Expected efforts to control inflation would come at the expense of economic activity, while changing tack to support the economy would risk prolonged price pressures. She can’t win. Follow @swahapattanaik on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) CONTEXT NEWS - The euro fell against other major currencies on March 4 as Russia's invasion of Ukraine threatened to damage Europe’s economic prospects. The single currency fell to $1.0884, the weakest since May 2020, and hit a seven-year low of 1.0024 Swiss francs. - The euro also lost ground against the British pound, falling to 82.29 pence, its lowest level since 2016. BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.