LONDON, March 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The van der Vorm family is making a long-term bet on the Netherlands’ historic success in holding back the sea. The clan’s HAL Trust (HLAN.AS) on Thursday offered to buy the 54% it doesn’t own of Dutch dredging specialist Royal Boskalis Westminster at a 4.2 billion euro valuation . Though the offer of 32.50 euros per share is 28% above the company’s closing share price on Wednesday, it doesn’t reflect Boskalis’ potential importance in helping countries cope with rising sea levels. The Dutch company boosted its reputation last year by salvaging stranded container ship Ever Given, unblocking the Suez Canal. But it earns more from declining offshore oil drilling, currently a quarter of its revenue, and installing marine wind turbines. Jefferies analysts reckon the latter business will grow 20% a year this decade, while building Dutch-style coastal defences could unleash $800 billion of annual global investment. HAL’s offer values Boskalis at 7.6 times this year’s forecast EBITDA. That’s a slight premium to Belgian rival DEME, whose listed parent trades on 6.5 times, but below China’s CHEC. Boskalis shareholders should sit tight. (By Ed Cropley) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Abramovich sanctions put Chelsea in financial hole  read more  Disney investors make ESG activist must-watch TV  read more  Fortescue’s new green CFO faces tough transition  read more  Russia forces White House hand on digital dollar  read more  DWS’ Stagecoach offer looks hard to derail  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.