(Reuters) - Former FirstEnergy Corp CEO Charles Jones and former senior vice president Michael Dowling "devised and orchestrated" a scheme in which the company paid millions of dollars to Ohio politicians in exchange for their support of legislation to benefit the company, according to an affidavit filed on Wednesday by shareholder lawyers in a derivative case against FirstEnergy's board members. Jones counsel Carole Rendon of Baker & Hostetler refuted the assertion in an email. "Plaintiffs’ lawyers’ statements are not evidence," she said. "Mr. Jones did not engage in any unlawful conduct or violate any of FirstEnergy’s policies." Dowling's counsel at Tucker Ellis did not immediately respond to email queries about the affidavit, which was signed by plaintiffs' lawyer Jeroen van Kwawegen of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann. The affidavit acknowledged that Jones and Dowling, who could not be immediately reached for comment, have "vehemently denied acting improperly," and have not been criminally charged by the U.S. Justice Department, which is investigating the bribery scheme. FirstEnergy admitted conspiring with public officials and agreed to pay $230 million last summer in a deferred prosecution deal with the Justice Department. That agreement did not disclose the names of the corporate officials who allegedly paid off Ohio politicians to obtain their support for a bailout of FirstEnergy's nuclear power units. Van Kwawegen's affidavit is the first time Jones and Dowling have been publicly identified as alleged orchestrators of the bribery scheme. The affidavit came after U.S. District Judge John Adams of Akron on Tuesday ordered shareholders' lawyers in the derivative litigation to reveal the identity of the alleged corporate wrongdoers. Adams' order was the culmination of a weeks-long showdown between the judge and lawyers in the derivative case over the disclosure of FirstEnergy's alleged wrongdoers. Plaintiffs lawyers from Bernstein Litowitz, Saxena White and Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, who are trying to win approval of a proposed $180 million settlement, told Adams that confidentiality orders governing discovery in the derivative litigation precluded them from publicly revealing the names of the executives. Adams rejected those arguments in Tuesday's order. “This bribery scheme has undoubtedly shaken whatever trust that Ohioans may have had in the political process used by their elected officials,” Adams wrote. “The public has a right to know how it is that the political process was so easily corrupted.” Plaintiffs lawyers also cited confidentiality concerns in a filing to Columbus federal Judge Algenon Marbley, who, as I’ve reported, is also presiding over derivative litigation against FirstEnergy board members. Marbley did not act to block van Kwawegen and his colleagues from filing Wednesday's affidavit as ordered by Adams. Shareholders' lawyers have sought approval of the proposed $180 million settlement of the derivative litigation from Marbley, not Adams. When plaintiffs first told the two federal judges that they had reached a tentative deal and would move for approval in Columbus, Adams expressed concern that the settlement would avert scheduled depositions of FirstEnergy defendants. The Akron judge also accused the parties of forum shopping to avoid his scrutiny. Adams first demanded the revelation of the names of the FirstEnergy officials who paid the bribes at an extraordinary hearing in Akron on March 9. Van Kwawegen told the judge that he could not disclose the names, which had been produced in discovery in the case. When van Kwawegen refused to budge, as I told you last week, Adams abruptly ended the hearing and left the bench. Plaintiffs’ lawyers argued in a post-hearing brief that they had learned the bribe payers’ identity through discovery produced under protective orders and could not reveal the information publicly, although they offered to provide the names under seal or in camera. FirstEnergy’s special litigation committee, composed of four independent directors appointed after the scandal broke, also told Adams in a March 16 brief that the derivative case is not the right vehicle for vindicating the public’s interest in the corruption plot. The committee’s lawyers at Debevoise & Plimpton said the Justice Department is continuing to investigate the bribery scheme, with FirstEnergy's cooperation, to assure that there will be public accountability for the wrongdoing. By contrast, Debevoise said, the derivative case addresses only the harm that FirstEnergy board members caused to the company. “The court’s desire for public accountability, while understandable, risks harm to the interests of FirstEnergy and its stockholders, which is exactly the opposite of what a derivative litigation is supposed to do,” the brief said. Adams’ order on Tuesday said that if the litigation committee is correct and the bribe payers’ identity will eventually be revealed in the DOJ’s criminal investigation, then there is no harm in disclosing the same information in the derivative case. He also said that the company’s interests are not the only concerns in the litigation, “given that it is alleged that FirstEnergy executives perpetrated a scheme that impacted nearly every Ohioan.” Adams once again accused shareholders and defendants of trying to cut him out of the settlement review process, warning that their alleged forum shopping undermined public trust in the agreement. “All of the purported goals in the complaint – holding defendants accountable and making FirstEnergy whole again chiefly among them – are thwarted,” Adams wrote. “The public will have no confidence that a fair resolution was reached when so few details are made public, especially when the parties have gone to such great lengths to attempt to shield discovery from the public.” At the March 9 hearing, van Kwawegen vehemently rejected Adams’ assertion of forum shopping, pointing out that the Akron judge never appointed lead counsel in the lone derivative case filed in his jurisdiction. As I've reported, Marbley acted far more quickly, consolidating several FirstEnergy derivative cases filed in Columbus, appointing lead counsel and even denying a defense dismissal motion before Adams decided not to transfer the parallel case in his court to Columbus. I emailed shareholders' lawyers van Kwawegen, Joseph White and Steven Toll and special litigation committee counsel Susan Gittes and Maeve O’Connor of Debevoise but didn’t hear back. Defense counsel for individual FirstEnergy defendants in the derivative litigation also did not respond. (NOTE: This column was updated to reflect the names of the FirstEnergy executives identified in the plaintiffs lawyers' affidavit.) Read more: Shareholder lawyers push back at irate judge’s demands in $180 million FirstEnergy case Federal judges in tug-o-war, $180 mln derivative deal caught in between FirstEnergy agrees to pay $230 mln to settle U.S. bribery charges Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Alison Frankel has covered high-stakes commercial litigation as a columnist for Reuters since 2011. A Dartmouth college graduate, she has worked as a journalist in New York covering the legal industry and the law for more than three decades. Before joining Reuters, she was a writer and editor at The American Lawyer. Frankel is the author of Double Eagle: The Epic Story of the World’s Most Valuable Coin.