LONDON, March 17 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The post-pandemic return to normal is hurting online vendors. On Thursday Ocado (OCDO.L) reported a 6% plunge in its revenue for the three months ending Feb. 27, while food and grocery delivery company Deliveroo (ROO.L) said it wouldn’t break even until the second half of 2023. Ocado Chief Executive Tim Steiner also warned that full-year sales growth would only reach 10%, down from a previous forecast of mid-teens growth. Little wonder the company’s shares fell 8.5% on the news. Cost-cutting and competition will make matters worse. British shoppers are increasingly looking for bargains as inflation and energy prices soar. Since the beginning of the year, German discounters Aldi and Lidl have grown their market share by nearly a full percentage point and now control 14% of the UK market. Meanwhile, industry titan Tesco (TSCO.L) is also holding onto its 28% market share while its smaller rivals J Sainsbury (SBRY.L) and Wm Morrison Supermarkets have lost ground. Buyout houses, which have eyed Sainsbury’s already, may want to hold fire. For online-only players like Ocado, competition and penny-pinching customers will make it difficult to pass on extra costs without losing business. (By Aimee Donnellan) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: China Swiss IPOs as predictable as a cuckoo clock  read more  Delayed Arnault exit is net win for LVMH investors  read more  Telecom Italia picks wrong time to do right thing  read more  China stock tumble is a reminder of deepening rift  read more  Americans’ inflation tolerance may be fleeting  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.