MELBOURNE, March 8 (Reuters Breakingviews) - It takes conviction to invest in a company whose stock headed south for almost five years. Either that or some inside knowledge – used within the rules, of course. Even then, it’s a tough call to buy into a coal-heavy company trying to transition to clean energy. Yet Graeme Hunt reckons AGL Energy , the beleaguered Australian power company he runs, is worth at least 20% more than the sweetened A$8.3 billion ($6.1 billion), or A$8.25 per share, Brookfield Asset Management (BAMa.TO) and Grok Ventures offered at the weekend before walking. Trouble is, neither he nor his fellow board members appear ready to act on the sentiment. Excluding Graham Cockroft, who joined this year, no director has bought more than A$20,000-worth since September 2020, according to the Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility. That’s despite shares hitting a multi-decade low of A$5.10 a piece in November, some 80% below its 2017 high. The price is now A$7.33. Not only would buying in recent months have made directors a nice earner, it would have added weight to their insistence on hidden value. (By Antony Currie) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Company bosses are losing the ignorance excuse  read more  Rusal rejig is rehabilitation long shot  read more  Argentina and the IMF: Hope trumps experience  read more  Where are the oligarchs’ yachts?  read more  Grab’s slowdown is where rubber hits road  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.