NEW YORK, March 4 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Argentina and the International Monetary Fund on Thursday agreed a $45 billion deal to roll over 2018’s infamous $57 billion credit line. If approved, it will come in the nick of time for a deadline for repayments that Buenos Aires would otherwise have struggled to make. This time, the IMF says, is different. The policy requirements the Argentine government is agreeing to are based on “realistic goals” and a “pragmatic approach” – both lacking in the bailout four years ago, which was largely wishful thinking on the part of the fund. Even assuming lessons have been learned, the agreement calls for skepticism. First, both sides needed a deal badly, perhaps too badly. Second, President Alberto Fernández’s government has to get it approved by Argentina’s Congress and then implement and maintain measures to improve public finances, which tend to involve unpopular things like tax hikes and subsidy reductions. Third, it’s the country’s 22nd IMF bailout, on Reuters’ count. It’s a victory for hope over recent – and long-term – experience. (By Richard Beales) (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Where are the oligarchs’ yachts?  read more  Grab’s slowdown is where rubber hits road  read more  Snowflake’s no snowflake  read more  Numbers start to add up for LSEG’s big data deal  read more  KKR survives Telecom Italia near-miss  read more  Farallon and Co put price on coal’s pariah status  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.