WASHINGTON, March 9 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the White House calculus on a digital dollar. Launching an official cryptocurrency was not a priority of President Joe Biden’s administration. Now his team is embracing an electronic greenback. America lags other efforts to launch official digital tokens pegged to a country’s currency. While China has already tested its version  read more , the U.S. Federal Reserve has plodded along, merely issuing a report in January studying the benefits and risks. But sanctions imposed on Russia’s central bank and its largest lenders may encourage countries and individuals to shun the greenback. That’s why Biden issued an executive order on Wednesday directing agencies to target crypto-criminal activities and explore a U.S. digital dollar. White House officials said that the government was placing the “highest urgency” on its potential development. Central bank-backed tokens carry risks, including possibly disintermediating banks. But the Fed’s study also said a digital version may make the dollar more globally appealing. With Russia potentially turning to China, Biden has found his crypto cause. (By Gina Chon) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: DWS’ Stagecoach offer looks hard to derail  read more  Danone’s reset looks manageable but modest  read more  AGL directors fail to put money where mouth is  read more  Company bosses are losing the ignorance excuse  read more  Rusal rejig is rehabilitation long shot  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.