LONDON, March 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - London Stock Exchange Group is rebuilding its investor appeal. Shares in the $50 billion company rose over 5% on Thursday morning after Chief Executive David Schwimmer announced it had met or exceeded the financial targets he set following the takeover of Refinitiv early last year. That offered some encouragement to investors sceptical about LSEG’s ability to revive growth at the data provider  read more . Annual revenue grew 6% on a pro-forma basis, while LSEG’s EBITDA margin expanded by almost 2 percentage points to 48%. Meanwhile, strong cash flow helped shrink net debt to below the company’s targeted limit of 2 times EBITDA. Even after Thursday’s bounce, though, LSEG shares are worth 30% less than a year ago. Including debt, the company is valued at around 13 times forecast EBITDA for 2023. That’s slightly ahead of European exchange groups like Deutsche Boerse (DB1Gn.DE) and Euronext (ENX.PA), but well behind data rivals like S&P Global (SPGI.N) and Factset Research Systems (FDS.N). Schwimmer still faces a long climb. (By Peter Thal Larsen) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: KKR survives Telecom Italia near-miss  read more  Farallon and Co put price on coal’s pariah status  read more  Ford plays private equity on its own business  read more  French tester pain helps odds of Europe mega-deal  read more  Digital waves crash hard on Sea  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.