NEW YORK, March 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Snowflake’s (SNOW.N) melting market capitalization reflects investors’ overly lofty expectations. Its share price fell by nearly a fifth on Thursday even though the $65 billion data warehouse firm said fourth-quarter revenue doubled. A solid business, with cash from operations easily covering capital expenditures, means slight missteps present a valuation conundrum, not an existential threat. Fast growing firms are hard to value, but the market’s ardor  read more  is cooling. Snowflake thinks revenue will rise by two-thirds next year, to $1.9 billion. Now assume sales grow 50% annually for five years and the company will enjoy a net margin of 35%, like Microsoft (MSFT.O). On the same earnings multiple, the company would eventually be worth around $140 billion. That’s exuberant, but Snowflake was worth about this much in December. If growth is 20%, it will eventually be worth only a third as much on the same multiples. Snowflake will continue to thrive. The same might not be true of other highfliers, such as electric-car makers like Lucid (LCID.O), which are burning cash. Without highly valued stock to issue, missteps could prove deadlier. (By Robert Cyran) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Numbers start to add up for LSEG’s big data deal  read more  KKR survives Telecom Italia near-miss  read more  Farallon and Co put price on coal’s pariah status  read more  Ford plays private equity on its own business  read more  French tester pain helps odds of Europe mega-deal  read more  Digital waves crash hard on Sea  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.