MILAN, March 18 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Sycamore Partners is digging in the fashion discount corner. The U.S. fund, which specialises in struggling retail assets, said on Friday that it could make a cash offer for hard-pressed British fashion firm Ted Baker (TED.L), triggering a 19% rally in its stock. For investors, the approach is a way of escaping the clutches of founder and former Chief Executive Ray Kelvin, whose overenthusiastic hugging habits led to his resignation in 2019 and a share price rout. Ted Baker shares are worth less than a tenth of their value before the scandal erupted. For Sycamore, it looks like an easy win. Assuming the U.S. fund pays 230 million pounds, a roughly 30% premium to Thursday’s market value, it could make a chunky 30% internal rate of return by simply growing revenue at 5% a year for five years and hiking the EBITDA margin to 12%, Breakingviews calculations show. That suggests the retailer may be worth more. Despite uncertainties in Europe because of the Ukrainian conflict, Ted Baker has worked hard to reduce its discounted sales to protect margins. Sycamore has ample wiggle room to pull investors from their misery. (By Lisa Jucca) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Tencent WeChat Pay rejig would have 1 bln problems  read more  KKR property deal threads the needle in Japan  read more  Electric-car makers need to stay on their diet  read more  Online grocer woes imply fresh price wars  read more  China Swiss IPOs as predictable as a cuckoo clock  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.