LONDON, March 8 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Antoine de Saint-Affrique’s new recipe is looking thin. Danone’s (DANO.PA) new boss, appointed in May after his predecessor was turfed out by activist shareholders , wants to rotate a tenth of the group’s portfolio through M&A, but doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with his broader categories: stuff like yoghurt and plant-based substitutes, water and specialised nutrition. If he’s right, he should set punchier targets. De Saint-Affrique wants the yoghurt maker to finally outgrow its markets. He’s aiming for 3% to 5% organic growth this year. This rate was once a consumer goods norm but it looks lacklustre when the International Monetary Fund expects prices to rise 3.9% in advanced economies and 5.9% in emerging markets. A recurring operating margin goal of more than 12% is also underwhelming considering the metric was 13.7% last year. Investing in brands should be a priority and de Saint-Affrique’s desire not to extend Danone’s record of missing targets  read more  is commendable. But a dollop more ambition would have helped keep shareholders happy. (By Dasha Afanasieva) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: AGL directors fail to put money where mouth is  read more  Company bosses are losing the ignorance excuse  read more  Rusal rejig is rehabilitation long shot  read more  Argentina and the IMF: Hope trumps experience  read more  Where are the oligarchs’ yachts?  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.