MELBOURNE, March 18 (Reuters Breakingviews) - KKR is getting bigger in Japan. The buyout shop on Thursday struck a deal to buy one of the country’s biggest property managers from Mitsubishi Corp (8058.T) and UBS (UBSG.S) for $2 billion. It’s a shrewd acquisition in more ways than one. KKR will significantly beef up its regional and sector presence by owning MC-UBSR and the $14.5 billion of office, retail, hotel and industrial property assets it controls through two publicly traded real estate investment trusts. Such growth and diversification are an important part of the story for private equity investors these days. Citi analysts reckon the valuation of 20 times estimated pre-tax, fee-related earnings for 2023 stacks up well compared to other recent deals. By using only cash from its balance sheet for the acquisition, KKR also sidesteps any tricky borrowing talks. Many Japanese banks just opened tough, and potentially costly, negotiations on a roughly $10 billion restructuring of KKR’s auto-parts maker Marelli  read more . It’s one more reason to keep a rainy-day fund. (By Jeffrey Goldfarb) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Electric-car makers need to stay on their diet  read more  Online grocer woes imply fresh price wars  read more  China Swiss IPOs as predictable as a cuckoo clock  read more  Delayed Arnault exit is net win for LVMH investors  read more  Telecom Italia picks wrong time to do right thing  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.