MELBOURNE, March 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Guy Debelle is swapping his role as deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia to be finance chief at Fortescue Future Industries. It’s an unusual, but not entirely illogical, career change. Debelle, a 25-year RBA veteran, took point on the central bank’s work on climate change, so he’s well-versed in the risks and opportunities. He also has decent contacts to help the green-energy division at $41 billion iron ore miner Fortescue Metals (FMG.AX). FFI touts a plethora of potential partnerships, most recently with Airbus(AIR.PA), to produce green hydrogen. It could take years for many of them to generate revenue, however. For now FFI, will rely on 10% of its parent’s net income to fund roughly $600 million a year of planned outlays. Using Refinitiv estimates, that’ll last three years at best. It could run out sooner if Fortescue Chair Andrew Forrest, who argues the Russian war in Ukraine should accelerate the energy transition, demands more spending. If so, Debelle could find himself asking for more cash, an awkward position for any central banker. (By Antony Currie) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Russia forces White House hand on digital dollar  read more  DWS’ Stagecoach offer looks hard to derail  read more  Danone’s reset looks manageable but modest  read more  AGL directors fail to put money where mouth is  read more  Company bosses are losing the ignorance excuse  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.