MELBOURNE, March 25 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Australia’s decision to keep its borders sealed for much of the first two years of the pandemic warped parts of its economy  read more . It also led to a funding crisis for venture capital firm Uniseed, whose owners include the universities of Melbourne, Queensland, Sydney and New South Wales, as well as a government agency. First, the universities’ fee pools suffered as border restrictions meant foreign students could not physically enrol. Second, applicants for the country’s separate so-called Significant Investor visa scheme dried up. To get one of these, hopefuls invest up to A$5 million ($3.7 million), and Uniseed is often a beneficiary as one of the companies folks can pump money into. Cue UniSuper. It’s one of the country’s largest pension funds, catering especially to university employees. Its A$75 million investment on Thursday into Uniseed will give it access to start-up companies’ later funding rounds, where it can put significantly larger amounts of capital to work as it, like peers, seeks to diversify its assets  read more . That's making the most of crisis. (By Antony Currie) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Invesco wins battle, and half the war, at Zee  read more  Renault’s Russian retreat is a reality check  read more  Tencent exposes tech’s regulatory blind spots  read more  Wall Street blowout helps New York bounce back  read more  Saipem’s rescue offers Eni risky payback  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.