LONDON, March 24 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Renault (RENA.PA) is reversing out of Russia, with a 2.2 billion euro dent in its bonnet. The French carmaker’s exit, which involves a near-total write-off of its investment in the country, winds the clock back on Chief Executive Luca de Meo’s strategic turnaround after years of losses and conflicts with Japanese partner Nissan Motor (7201.T). But the alternative – staying put – was grimmer  read more . Renault would have been cobbling together cars without crucial imported components. It would then have been trying to sell them into an economy set to shrink 10% or more this year. The 7 billion euro group controls a third of Russia’s car market. It will now have to accept whatever Moscow decides for the three plants it is closing – one makes cars under its own brands; the two others produce the country’s famous Lada marque. President Vladimir Putin has threatened to take over the assets of companies from “hostile countries” threatening to leave. Renault could become the first example of how he plans to pull it off. (By Pierre Briancon) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Tencent exposes tech’s regulatory blind spots  read more  Wall Street blowout helps New York bounce back  read more  Saipem’s rescue offers Eni risky payback  read more  Sycamore can relieve Ted Baker from its misery  read more  Tencent WeChat Pay rejig would have 1 bln problems  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.