HONG KONG, March 11 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Market sensitivity to U.S.-Chinese relations may have slipped from the headlines with attention on Russia, but it hasn’t gone away. A Washington watchdog’s naming on Thursday of the first companies on course for delisting from New York gave the Nasdaq Golden Dragon Index of U.S.-listed Chinese firms its worst day in at least a decade, tumbling 10%. Laws introduced last year allow regulators to remove companies whose audits cannot be inspected. Unless Beijing freely allows inspections after years of caginess, defenestration begins in 2024. Roughly 270 listed outfits are at risk, analysts estimate.  read more  The five named firms, including $22 billion biotechnology company BeiGene (6160.HK), and KFC operator Yum China (9987.HK), are not so much singled out, rather it seems the first to have filed audited accounts. Those two are among those to have already prepared their escape by means of another listing in Hong Kong. BeiGene has another in Shanghai, too  read more . Geopolitical tensions may be focused elsewhere, but the rift between the U.S. and China is fast becoming market reality. (By Jennifer Hughes) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Americans’ inflation tolerance may be fleeting  read more  Dutch dredger makes virtue of living the low life  read more  Abramovich sanctions put Chelsea in financial hole  read more  Disney investors make ESG activist must-watch TV  read more  Fortescue’s new green CFO faces tough transition  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.