MILAN, March 23 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Eni’s (ENI.MI) rescue of affiliate Saipem (SPMI.MI) looks risky. The 48 billion euro Italian energy major is joining a 1.5 billion euro cash call to prop up the troubled drilling company, in which it owns a 30.4% stake, Reuters reported on Tuesday  read more . It will also guarantee an 855 million euro equity bridge from banks for part of the rest. If all goes to plan, that will later be refinanced with a 2 billion euro capital increase with Saipem’s other investors. Eni’s commitment to Saipem has not yielded profit. The company’s shares have dived 90% since a 3.5 billion euro cash call in 2015. This may cast doubt on Claudio Descalzi’s strategy of maintaining stakes in a galaxy of offshoots. The capital increase will help cover a forecast net loss of 2 billion euros in 2021, the result of write-downs on some contracts . But the company has yet to detail its exposure to Russia, where it won in 2019 a 2.2 billion euro share of a liquefied natural gas project. And boss Francesco Caio is under pressure. Still, a global rush to secure more oil and gas resources plays to Saipem’s core drilling strength. Eni’s support is Descalzi’s last chance for some payback. (By Lisa Jucca) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Sycamore can relieve Ted Baker from its misery  read more  Tencent WeChat Pay rejig would have 1 bln problems  read more  KKR property deal threads the needle in Japan  read more  Electric-car makers need to stay on their diet  read more  Online grocer woes imply fresh price wars  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.