MUMBAI, March 4 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Grab is perilously navigating around grumpy investors, reluctant drivers and fickle users. The Southeast Asian super-app’s shares plunged 37% in New York on Thursday after the company reported its first quarterly earnings since listing. The stock is now 70% below its December debut via a $31 billion merger with a blank-cheque firm. A muted outlook and intensifying competition add more drag. The ride-hailing to food-delivery specialist beat its own guidance for value of transactions. But it is splurging on promotions to lure drivers and other partners back after Covid-19 lockdowns and to maintain market share. Total revenue fell 44% year-on-year to $122 million in the December quarter and its net loss widened 73% to $1.1 billion. Worryingly, Grab expects transaction values processed by its mobility, deliveries and financial-services units for the March quarter to be at or below the previous three months. It’s hurting in payments particularly after two rivals merged to form GoTo, a powerhouse in the key Indonesian market. There may be seasonal factors too, but Grab’s engines are sputtering at an unforgiving time. (By Una Galani) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Snowflake’s no snowflake  read more  Numbers start to add up for LSEG’s big data deal  read more  KKR survives Telecom Italia near-miss  read more  Farallon and Co put price on coal’s pariah status  read more  Ford plays private equity on its own business  read more  French tester pain helps odds of Europe mega-deal  read more  BreakingviewsReuters Breakingviews is the world's leading source of agenda-setting financial insight. As the Reuters brand for financial commentary, we dissect the big business and economic stories as they break around the world every day. A global team of about 30 correspondents in New York, London, Hong Kong and other major cities provides expert analysis in real time.Sign up for a free trial of our full service at https://www.breakingviews.com/trial and follow us on Twitter @Breakingviews and at www.breakingviews.com. All opinions expressed are those of the authors.