(Reuters) - Nespresso USA Inc sued Northern California-based chain Peet's Coffee in Manhattan federal court on Thursday, alleging its coffee pods infringe Nespresso's trademark rights for its own capsule design. The lawsuit said Peet's similar capsules confuse customers into believing the pods are connected with Nestle's Nespresso, which Peet's allegedly exacerbates by advertising that its pods are compatible with Nespresso machines. Peet's declined to comment. Coffee pods have triggered a range of legal battles in recent years, including patent and trademark disputes involving Nespresso, Keurig Dr. Pepper, and others. Nespresso's Thursday lawsuit said Peet's sells coffee capsules that are "nearly identical" to Nespresso's, with the same "frustoconical" tops, opaque colors, and other elements. Nespresso also said Peet's capsules are likely to cause confusion, and that some customers have already been confused, noting several internet product reviews of Peet's pods that call them Nespresso pods. Nespresso said in the lawsuit that it has applied for a federal trademark registration covering its pod design. It asked the court to award it Peet's profits from the allegedly infringing capsules and tripled money damages. A Nespresso spokesperson said the company had "spent many years and invested millions of dollars" cultivating its "unique experience" and that Peet's had refused to stop infringing its intellectual property after it asked. The case is Nespresso USA Inc v. Peet's Coffee Inc, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 1:22-cv-02209. For Nespresso: John Mancini and Kristine Young of Mayer Brown For Peet's: n/a (NOTE: This story has been updated with the parties' responses.) Read more: Nespresso sued by German company over coffee capsule patents Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Washington-based correspondent covering court cases, trends, and other developments in intellectual property law, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets. Previous experience at Bloomberg Law, Thomson Reuters Practical Law and work as an attorney.