(Reuters) - Simpson Thacher & Bartlett on Monday said it has elected Alden Millard, a corporate partner who has practiced at the New York-based law firm since 1996, as its next leader. Millard will succeed William Dougherty, who has served as chair of Simpson Thacher's governing executive committee for nearly a decade. Dougherty remains at the firm as a partner, according to its website. Millard, who is based in New York, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on his new role. Under Dougherty's tenure as chair, Simpson Thacher has seen its fortunes rise along with other leading U.S. law firms. From when he assumed leadership in 2013 through 2021, its revenue increased to $2.2 billion from $1.1 billion, while average equity partner profits ballooned to about $6 million and attorney head count grew to more than 1,100 lawyers, according to data collected by ALM Media. Simpson Thacher was among the U.S. law firms that thrived during last year's global boom in M&A work, when total M&A activity reached more than $5.9 trillion, according to year-end data from Refinitiv. Simpson Thacher ranked fifth among U.S. law firms last year by combined deal value, advising on more than $509 billion in transaction. In the first quarter of 2022, Simpson Thacher advised on 53 global announced deals worth $144.9 billion, second only to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. Both firms have roles on Microsoft Corp's $68.7 billion acquisition of "Call of Duty" maker Activision Blizzard Inc. Millard's clients include private equity firms Blackstone Inc and First Reserve Corp. He represented Blackstone in its $5 billion acquisition of the Chamberlain Group LLC, which owns garage door company LiftMaster, from the Duchossois Group Inc in September. He also represented Blackstone when it purchased a majority stake in Thomson Reuters' Financial & Risk unit in 2018. Thomson Reuters is the parent company of Reuters News. Read more: Skadden, Goodwin led M&A pack in Q1 as dealmaking cooled Simpson Thacher, Skadden drafted for Microsoft’s $69 bln Activision buy Large law firms rode high on record year for M&A dollars Thomson Reuters closes deal with Blackstone Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. David Thomas reports on the business of law, including law firm strategy, hiring, mergers and litigation. He is based out of Chicago. He can be reached at d.thomas@thomsonreuters.com and on Twitter @DaveThomas5150.