(Reuters) - Large law firm Norton Rose Fulbright on Tuesday said it has doubled the size of its Minneapolis office by hiring 11 lawyers from Blackwell Burke, a local trial firm whose lawyers helped prosecute former police officer Derek Chauvin for the May 2020 murder of George Floyd. Norton Rose's new crop of attorneys include partner Mary Young and of counsel Corey Gordon, both of whom served on the pro bono team that prosecuted Chauvin alongside Blackwell Burke's founder, Jerry Blackwell. Blackwell was a key member of the prosecution team, delivering both opening and closing arguments in the case. A jury convicted Chauvin of murdering Floyd in April 2021, and he was sentenced to 22-1/2 years in prison last year. The verdict was widely seen as a landmark rebuke of the disproportionate use of police force against Black Americans. Apart from Young, Jerry Alcazar, S. Jamal Faleel and Benjamin Hulse have joined Norton Rose as partners. The group joining Norton Rose represents the "bulk" of Blackwell Burke, which is expected to shut down, Alcazar said. Blackwell is leaving private practice to pursue a career in public service, Norton Rose said in a statement. "This group has been family to me and I will miss them," Blackwell said in the statement. Hailing from a minority-owned firm, Alcazar and Faleel said they liked Norton Rose's "focus on diversity and inclusion." The firm last year tapped a woman of color, Shauna Clark, to serve as both its U.S. and global chair for the first time. Faleel added that Blackwell Burke and Norton Rose share clients and have worked together on litigation matters. A spokesperson for Blackwell Burke did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday. Read more: Derek Chauvin sentenced to 22-1/2 years in murder of George Floyd Chauvin convicted of murdering George Floyd in landmark U.S. racial justice case Opening statements at trial of ex-Minneapolis police officer in George Floyd's death Norton Rose Fulbright says newly elected chair breaks racial, gender barriers Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. David Thomas reports on the business of law, including law firm strategy, hiring, mergers and litigation. He is based out of Chicago. He can be reached at d.thomas@thomsonreuters.com and on Twitter @DaveThomas5150.