(Reuters) - U.S. law firm Boies Schiller Flexner said Tuesday it has hired a partner to its international arbitration group in London, adding to its U.K. presence three months after the departures of London leader Natasha Harrison and most of the rest of its office there. Timothy Foden is the first partner to join Boies Schiller’s London office since Harrison and more than a dozen other attorneys left in January. “As we have evaluated opportunities to expand in London this year, we have remained focused on growing in a way that is fully integrated with the rest of the firm,” managing partners Sigrid McCawley, Matthew Schwartz and Alan Vickery said in a statement. Growing the London office is a "strategic priority" for the firm, along with adding attorneys to its complex commercial litigation, antitrust, international arbitration and investigations practice groups, Schwartz told Reuters. Boies Schiller's website on Tuesday showed it now has five attorneys in London, including one partner who also spends time in New York and two others who were promoted to partner earlier this year. The firm had previously said its new Milan office "will be a significant focus as we grow our U.K. office in the coming months and years." Foden was a partner at midsize Swiss law firm Lalive’s London outpost before joining Boies Schiller. He specializes in investor treaty arbitration in the mining and energy sectors, according to statement by Boies Schiller. He has advised clients on global commercial disputes under the Energy Charter Treaty, a multilateral investment agreement, and other bilateral investment treaties, the firm added. A spokesperson for Lalive wished Foden well. Boies Schiller, founded by famed trial lawyer David Boies, has seen a stream of high-profile partner exits since 2020, with departing attorneys citing concerns over transparency, culture and the health of the firm, among other factors, as reasons for leaving. Boies, who remains chairman of the firm, has described the departures as part of a natural transition that has not affected the firm's ability to recruit new lawyers. "We will be opportunistic about adding lateral talent in offices throughout the firm where we see a good fit," Schwartz said Tuesday. (NOTE: This story has been updated to include comments from Boies Schiller managing partner Matthew Schwartz.) Read more: Boies Schiller sees London exodus with UK leader's departure David Boies says move to Italy cements firm's EU foothold Boies Schiller leader Gravante takes partner group to Cadwalader, intensifying pressures Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.