Jan 10 (Reuters) - Healthcare communications software provider TigerConnect has raised $300 million in growth investment from private equity firm Vista Equity Partners, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters on Monday. The valuation of TigerConnect wasn't known. It last raised $45 million at a valuation of $370 million in September 2020, according to PitchBook data, counting HealthQuest Capital and New Leaf Ventures as its backers. Some of the early investors have exited through Vista's investment, one of the sources said. Santa Monica, California-based TigerConnect delivers cloud-based clinical communication and collaboration solutions, including telehealth, to over 7,000 healthcare organizations and 700,000 caregivers. In an interview, Brad Brooks, TigerConnect's co-founder and chief executive confirmed the partnership with Vista, but declined to comment on the amount or valuation. He said the company plans to use the proceeds to invest in its product to meet the growing need for clinical collaborations, as well as looking for acquisition opportunities. The number of users on TigerConnect's platform more than doubled during the past year as hospitals try to improve efficiency and the experience for patients during the pandemic, Brooks added. "There had really been a dramatic lack of efforts around clinical workflow communication. We're almost like a Slack for healthcare, putting in a common communication network so that everyone can reach everyone," said Brooks. The company, founded in 2010, sells subscription-based software solutions, including collaboration, communication, scheduling and patient engagement. It also plans to utilize AI and machine learning technology to provide smart solutions based on the platform data. Vista has over $86 billion in assets under management and specializes in investing in enterprise software, data and technology companies. Last week, it invested an undisclosed amount in BlueConic, a Boston-based customer data platform. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.