(Reuters) - Paul Hastings has added four London-based partners from Latham & Watkins, the firm said Monday, bringing on the team that helped arrange financing for Bain Capital Private Equity's $2 billion (1.7 billion euros) acquisition of Rolls-Royce's Spanish unit ITP Aero last year. The new Paul Hastings arrivals include Ross Anderson, who was a co-chair of Latham's global banking practice, and Mo Nurmohamed and Karan Chopra, who were both leaders of Latham's finance department in London. Also joining is Robert Davidson, who became a partner at Latham earlier this year. Paul Hastings has named Nurmohamed a co-chair of its global finance practice. The team's other past matters include arranging financing for Blackstone's acquisition of international building materials distributor Grafton Group plc's British traditional merchanting business for $718 million (520 million pounds) last year, Paul Hastings said. Representatives for Latham did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the departures. This is the second time in as many months Paul Hastings has poached a transactional lead from a rival firm. Last month, the firm added Eduardo Gallardo from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, where he was global M&A co-chair. Paul Hastings said it has seen "extraordinary momentum" in its London office, which saw a 41% increase in revenue last year. A spokesperson for the firm did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The moves come as global M&A activity has slowed after Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February and growing fears of an impending economic recession. Global M&A activity dropped 21% in the first half of 2022 compared to a year ago, Refinitiv data showed. Read more: Sullivan & Cromwell leads first-half M&A in slower 2022 for firm dealmakers Paul Hastings continues NY growth with Gibson Dunn M&A co-chair Rolls-Royce soars after hitting disposal target with $2 bln ITP sale Grafton to sell traditional merchanting business in Britain for $718 million Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters David Thomas reports on the business of law, including law firm strategy, hiring, mergers and litigation. He is based out of Chicago. He can be reached at d.thomas@thomsonreuters.com and on Twitter @DaveThomas5150.