(Reuters) - Womble Bond Dickinson said Thursday the firm has set up shop in Nashville, Tennessee, a city that that's recently grown in appeal for large out-of-town law firms. The 1,100-lawyer firm said it has hired partner Masami Izumida Tyson to join five existing Womble lawyers in the new Nashville office, which the firm said opened last month. Tyson was most recently global director of foreign direct investment and trade in Tennessee's Department of Economic and Community Development, the firm said. The five other lawyers, including three partners, will split time between Nashville and other offices, according to a Womble spokesperson. Several big firms have recently entered the Nashville market. New York-founded employment law firm Jackson Lewis opened in the city with four lawyers from other firms in January. Pittsburgh-founded K&L Gates hired 27 lawyers from local firms for its launch there in February 2021, and Kansas City, Missouri-founded Spencer Fane merged with a Nashville-based midsize law firm last year. Other large firms, including Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough and Polsinelli, have had offices in Nashville for longer. Recently cities such as Austin, Texas, Salt Lake City and Miami have emerged as hot spots for large law firms, as they follow clients who have grown in these regions. Nashville appears to have a similar draw. AllianceBernstein said in 2018 it would relocate its corporate headquarters to Nashville from New York and unveiled the new office this May, according to a press statement. Companies including Amazon.com Inc and Oracle Corp have also in recent years announced plans to open Nashville hubs. "Nashville is a fast-growing market, both in terms of GDP growth and the extent to which talent is moving into the city," Jamie Francis, a partner who leads Womble's corporate and securities practice, said in an emailed statement. Womble said on its website that the lawyers in Nashville focus on international trade, foreign direct investment, cross-border transactions and global trade dispute resolution. Womble is the product of a 2017 transatlantic merger between North Carolina-based Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice and UK-based law firm Bond Dickinson. The firm recently also opened in New York with a five-lawyer group of trademark lawyers. Read more: Womble opens New York office with five-attorney trademark team Womble poaches Baker Donelson practice chiefs for global trade, biz groups As U.S. 'superstar' cities thrive, weaker ones get left behind Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com