WASHINGTON, July 13 (Reuters) - The U.S. securities regulator voted on Wednesday to rescind rules introduced under then-U.S. President Donald Trump that critics said impeded the independence of firms that advise investors on how to vote in corporate elections. The 3-2 vote to adopt rule changes is the latest installment in a long-running battle over how to regulate "proxy" advisers like Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, which advise investors how to cast their ballot on issues including the election of directors, merger transactions and shareholder proposals. Corporations say these companies have amassed too much sway over corporate elections and should be more tightly regulated. In 2020, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) introduced rules that increased proxy advisers' legal liability and required them to share recommendations early on with corporate executives. Investor advocates said the changes tilted the scales in favor of corporate bosses over investors. Wednesday's rules specifically rescind two exemptions, including a requirement that proxy advisers provide a first look to corporations of the advice to be tabled. It also removes a requirement that allowed clients of proxy firms to be notified of any written responses to their advice from companies. President Joe Biden's SEC first proposed these rule changes in November, and said investors had expressed concerns that the conditions created increased compliance costs for proxy advisers and impaired the independence and timeliness of their advice. It also said the legal liability changes had created confusion and increased proxy advisers' litigation risks, potentially impairing the quality of advice. "The SEC has offered no justification for abandoning a decade’s worth of bipartisan, consensus-driven policymaking," said Jay Timmons, chief executive of the National Association of Manufacturers, adding that his group would be filing suit in the coming weeks to "protect manufacturers from proxy advisory firms’ outsized influence." Proponents of the rule cheered the changes, but said the SEC should have gone farther to undo some aspects. "While we applaud the Commission for removing some of the 2020 rule’s more draconian provisions, the rule should have been rescinded in its entirety," ISS said in a statement. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Washington-based reporter covering U.S. regulation at the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, previously e3xperience in Ecuador, alumnus of Morehouse College and Northwestern University’s Medill School of Journalism.