May 31 (Reuters) - Unilever (ULVR.L)appointed Nelson Peltz to its board on Tuesday as it engaged in talks about strategy with the American activist investor, who now holds a roughly 1.5% stake in the consumer goods giant. [nL4N2XN14J] The maker of Dove soap and Magnum ice cream has had a bumpy few years, with shares falling about a quarter from highs seen in late 2019 and CEO Alan Jope's plans facing scrutiny. Here are key developments around Unilever in the past six months. NOV. 18, 2021: Unilever agreed to sell its global tea business to CVC Capital Partners for 4.5 billion euros ($5.1 billion), concluding a process of reviewing and spinning off the division that had taken more than two years.  read more  JAN. 15, 2022: GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) (GSK.L) said it had rejected a 50-billion-pound ($68 billion) offer for its consumer goods businessfrom Unilever. The offer "fundamentally undervalued" the business, said GSK.  read more  GSK said it had received a third approach from Unilever on Dec. 20 and that the offerhad comprised 41.7 billion pounds in cash and 8.3 billion in Unilever shares. Unilever confirmed that it had approached GSK about buying the business. Unilever signalled it would still pursue a deal for GSK's consumer business, calling it a "strong strategic fit," but its shares slid more than 8%. The company also said it would announce an initiative later in the month to strengthen its business. read more  Unilever said it would not raise its offer for GSK's consumer healthcare business from 50 billion pounds, effectively abandoning its pursuit of the GSK business. Sources had told Reuters GSK would not engage with Unilever unless the offer were sweetened.  read more  Influential British fund manager Terry Smith criticised the failed bid as a "near death experience" and urged Unilever to focus on strengthening performance.  read more  A source told Reuters that the hedge fund of activist investor Nelson Peltz, Trian Partners, had built a stake in Unilever, ratcheting up pressure on the company, months after Peltz had stepped down from the board of rival P&G (PG.N).  read more  Unilever shares rose 6% on reports of Peltz having acquired a stake.  read more  Unilever unveiled plans to cut about 1,500 management jobs and reshape its business to focus on five main product areas as it tried to boost growth.  read more  Unilever became the first major European food company to stop imports into and exports from Russia after the country's invasion of Ukraine.  read more  Unilever raised prices by more than 8% in the first quarter and warned more rises were on the way as it lifted its cost-inflation forecast for the second half of the year due to the Ukraine conflict.  read more  Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.