VATICAN CITY, May 29 (Reuters) - Here is a list of the 21 men Pope Francis will install as Roman Catholic cardinals at a ceremony known as a consistory on Aug. 27. Cardinal Electors under 80 will be able to enter a conclave to elect the next pope after Francis dies or retires: 1. Archbishop Arthur Roche (British) - Prefect of the Vatican Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments 2. Archbishop Lazzaro You Heung-sik (South Korean) - Prefect of the Vatican Congregation for the Clergy 3. Archbishop Fernando Vérgez Alzaga (Spanish) - President of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State and President of the Governorate for Vatican City State 4. Archbishop Jean-Marc Aveline - Metropolitan Archbishop of Marseille, France 5. Bishop Peter Okpaleke - Bishop of Ekwulobia, Nigeria 6. Archbishop Leonardo Ulrich Steiner - Metropolitan Archbishop of Manaus, Brazil 7. Archbishop Filipe Neri António Sebastião di Rosário Ferrão - Archbishop of Goa and Damão, India 8. Bishop Robert Walter McElroy – Bishop of San Diego, California, United States 9. Archbishop Virgilio Do Carmo Da Silva - Archbishop of Dili, East Timor 10. Bishop Oscar Cantoni - Bishop of Como, Italy 11. Archbishop Anthony Poola - Archbishop of Hyderabad, India 12. Archbishop Paulo Cezar Costa - Metropolitan Archbishop of Brasília, Brazil 13. Bishop Richard Kuuia Baawobr - Bishop of Wa, Ghana 14. Archbishop William Goh Seng Chye - Archbishop of Singapore 15. Archbishop Adalberto Martínez Flores - Metropolitan Archbishop of Asunción, Paraguay 16. Archbishop Giorgio Marengo (Italian) – Apostolic Prefect of Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. New cardinals over 80: 1. Archbishop Jorge Enrique Jiménez Carvajal - Archbishop Emeritus of Cartagena, Colombia 2. Archbishop Lucas Van Looy - Archbishop Emeritus of Gent, Belgium 3. Archbishop Arrigo Miglio - Archbishop Emeritus of Cagliari, Italy 4. Fr. Gianfranco Ghirlanda, S.J. – Professor of Theology 5. Msgr. Fortunato Frezza – Canon of Saint Peter's Basilica Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.